---
layout: posts
---

One of the main purposes for keeping this blog is for me to think through and reflect upon things and to remind myself of the lessons that I’m learning.  I keep myself pretty busy (there never seems to be enough hours in a day) and from time to time (more often than I would like) I will go through an entire day without having reflected upon what I’m doing and how I can improve upon my work.

So I thought I would press pause for a bit and give myself some reminders on writing good software.

__1. Write first, refactor later.__  While I was in school I really disliked writing papers, not necessarily because I didn’t enjoy writing papers, but more so, because it usually took me extremely long to write an essay, even a simple 3 to 4-page essays.  And one of the reasons why it took me so long to write papers was because I often thought and long and hard about each word I was putting down on paper as I was typing out the words.  I tried to write “the perfect paper” as I was typing crunching out the paper, and well, that usually turned out to be a not-so-good idea.

Same thing with writing songs.  It usually takes me an excruciatingly long  time to write a song because I try to write the perfect lyrics as I’m writing them down.  Again, bad idea.  The better idea, as I’ve learned from other songwriters, is to write down the words as they’re streaming out from my brain.  Almost in an unconscious fashion.  And once a draft has been composed, go back to the lyrics and do a rewrite.  And another rewrite.  And another and so forth.

When I’m writing code, I find myself having to remind myself that it’s perfectly O.K. to not write the perfect, most optimal, most readable code on the first try.  It usually saves me a ton of time to type out what simply works and then go back and perform refactoring.  Write tests to make sure that as I’m refactoring, I’m not breaking my own code.

__2. Details, details, details.__  It’s easy to write code that works 95% of the time.  It’s so much harder to write code that works 100% of the time.  Pay attention to the details.  Over the last few years in my career, I’ve been writing more & more front-end code and it’s often really easy to gloss over all of the different ways in which end users will interact with the application.  Don’t just assume that users will interact with the application in ways that I would.  As I’m writing code, I need to always try to break my own code.  It’s interesting to me just how much easier it is for me to break someone else’s code rather than my own.  If someone else wrote the exact same code that I wrote and I was asked to test both my code and this other person’s code, I can guarantee that I will find a ton more bugs with this other person’s code.

__3. Code slower.__ I get a rush from getting things done.  It applies to pretty much everything in my life.  Oh how I love crossing things off from my various TODO lists.  It’s the same thing with writing code.  As a paid employee, I’m basically paid to produce as much as possible, as quickly as possible, in the highest quality possible.  As such, I find that there are times when I will write code only to later realize that I probably would’ve been just fine to code a bit slower and give myself more time to more deeply think about the code I’m writing.  And perhaps this conflicts with my point #1 above.  Or perhaps it doesn’t.  The point is, I must not forget that I’m not paid to create software that simply works in the time allotted but rather, to create software that does its job as well as it can possibly do.
