---
layout: posts
---

I arrived in San Francisco last night with Jenny and a friend of ours at around 10:30 local time to attend Jenny’s friend’s wedding which takes place later today.  I was so extremely dead tired last night and was thinking that I’d be able to sleep in until around 7:30 am, but no, I woke up at around 5:15 and instead of fighting myself to fall back asleep, I thought I’d get up, iron my dressy clothes I brought w/ me, check into a Starbucks located across the street from the hotel, and create some free time for myself.

Free time has been nearly impossibly hard to come by as of late.  Yes, the upcoming wedding has a lot to do with it, but there have been a few other reasons for my busyness as well.

1. Job transitions: After switching to a new job back in July, I decided to come back to my old job and have been back for a week and a half now.  I left the new job because of 1) some very crucial “miscommunications” (I’ll leave it at that) that occurred which resulted in a fair amount of anger on my part and 2) being a consultant wasn’t quite the panaceatic experience I hoped it would be.  Had it not been for reason #1, I would not have left that job (or, at least now now) but you know, stuff happens in life and well, I really could not get myself to stick around at that company.  So this happens to have been the first time in my life I decided to leave a job because I was upset and well, I can only hope it doesn’t happen again because it wasn’t much fun going through the experience and in some ways, I feel like I wasted 12 and a half weeks of my career.  Having said that, I am happy to be back at the old job and in many ways, it feels like I never left the job in the first place.  It’s a really good thing I didn’t burn any bridges with people at work when I left my job back in July.

2. Family transitions: I’ve been busy assisting my parents with moving out to their new home.  Their original plan was to move back to Korea later this year but well, it didn’t work out like they had hoped so they’ll be staying put for at least another year.  With my dad turning 60 next year and my mom well into her mid 50′s, I cannot imagine even the possibility of having to pick up everything and move back to the country they had left behind __20__ years ago.  I still cannot fully (actually, it’s nowhere near “fully”) comprehend how, back in 1991, they could have packed up their bags and move to a completely foreign part of the world for the sake of their children.  Hopefully in a few years, I’ll get to understand the love my parents have/had for their children.  I love my parents and always wish I can do something a little more to help them out.  And speaking of family transitions, my brother is in the process of moving out as well.  He recently started to sell Comcast to make a living and to my pleasant surprise, he’s been an amazing salesperson.  And in addition, he’s been instructing chess at various schools and even promoting a nightclub to make a few bucks.  I can’t help but to be proud of my brother for taking initiatives such as these in his life and it’s been a joy to see the growth that’s been taking place in his life as of late.

3. Wedding planning: Well, I just had to include it in this list.  42 days to go and quickly counting down.  There have been moments when I’ve been very stressed and find myself more or less in the “I-just-wanna-get-over-with-the-wedding” mindset.  There is A LOT to do, just plain and simple.  What keeps me motivated at the end of the day, though, is that when all of this planning is over with I’ll get to marry someone who is just incredibly beautiful and is the person God chose to graciously bless me with.

Okay, I’m gonna go enjoy the few hours of free time I have left before Jenny and our friend wakes up from their slumber.
