---
layout: posts
---

I started 2017 with a ton of excitement over the opportunity to build Cappex's very own [college application product](https://www.cappex.com/hq/app/learn). I knew it was going to be an extremely challenging project with a tight deadline (8/1), a lot of moving pieces (pretty much the entire company was going to be focused on it), and a lot of hires to make (I made more hires in roughly 3 months than during the rest of the 3+ years I've been in my role) but I felt ready for it coming into 2017. As I mentioned in my [previous blog post](https://junhopark.com/posts/2017/10/12/new-product-launch-and-life-afterwards), my team got the job done in time & I couldn't be more proud of them.

Soon after going live with the product launch, my team had to then focus on getting the international version of the product (for international students) out the door. Again, people on the team worked hard & we were able to get it launched in October. By November we had international students submitting college applications using the product that my team had built. Pretty fantastic!

Fast forward several weeks and in early December I found out that I was going to have to leave Cappex and look for a new gig. I'm not going to go into details about what happened but what I can say is that it was a surprise and initially when I found out, I felt that the timing sucked. Really bad. I worried about the fact that from what I've seen, hiring tends to slow down noticeably in December. In addition, Christmas and New Years were just around the corner and losing my job is not the kind of thing I wanted to worry about during the holidays.

Thankfully, though, the negative feelings didn't last too long. I couldn't help but to think about all of the AMAZING opportunities I've had during my 5.5 years at Cappex. I was hired as a Sr. Software Engineer and pretty much as soon as I joined, I was given an opportunity to manage a couple of engineers, which was exactly the kind of opportunity I had been hoping for. I was able to make significant contributions to refining & implementing various engineering processes. I was provided with the opportunity to lead the entirety of the Technology organization and be a part of the company leadership staff. I was able to phone screen & interview hundreds of people and make a whole bunch of hires. I was able to introduce the team to a whole lot of new technologies and tools. I was given the opportunity to migrate to AWS. I could go on and on here but the important thing to note here is that while the circumstances under which I'm having to leave Cappex is certainly not ideal, this has taken away only a tiny little bit from the amazing experience I've had while working at Cappex. I'm still *extremely* thankful.

And speaking of being thankful, I've been overwhelmed with support from people all around me--my colleagues at Cappex, people I've worked with in the past, even some strangers I've been able to get in touch with in the last few weeks, my friends, my church, and my amazing wife. Thanks to some amazing people in my life, I was able to have meaningful conversations and interviews with over 10 companies in less than 3 weeks and just yesterday, I gave my verbal acceptance of offer. I'm excited, thankful, nervous, and while I'm sad to be leaving the company that I feel like has been an important part of my identity for the last 5.5 years (for better or for worse), I can't wait to finish up my time at Cappex, take a 2-week break (SO EXCITED), and jump into my new role.

I have such a strong conviction that God has shown his faithfulness & grace to me in the past 3 and a half weeks and am praying that I will remember this for a long time to come. Thankful & excited for 2018.
